All right, so now that we have some more board space, what we're going to do and we're going to literally
throw this into the equation, we have a conservation of momentum and see if it yields the the the trees
or see if it is in fact true and if it's preserved in a special relativity.
So we know that pinochle
must equal final.
And these are vectors, so that gives rise to an X component and Y component.
We're going to consider the X component or the Y component for us because that's what's really interesting.
And we know that the mass of each object is empty, so we end up with four state one.
Before we get the.
Why?
And vie for fill up state, one plus m d y parents at the state, one that must be equal to the final
state.
So this must be equal to M UI, fill up the two plus and the Y parents state to.
And you could see it gets quite messy and a lot of textbooks actually skip this part.
But I want you guys to see that it does not work.
I want you to build that intuition firsthand.
So I'm going to sort of arrange these guys to make it a bit nicer.
I'm going to pull all these guys over here so we can zero over here and we end up with m p y p two minus
m d y p one plus m d y t two minus m v y t one.
OK, I'm going to redefine these guys and see this this right here.
Is the change in momentum?
For Philip and this guy right here is the change in momentum for Terrence.
It's a little bit more manageable to work with, so we're going to calculate both of these separately
and in order for conservation will.
That's not to be true.
They must be equal and opposite in sight.
OK, let's see.
Same if you have an opposite sign.
OK, let's work first with Philip.
That seems pretty easy.
Delta P.
That's no more than what we have right here.
That's an V.
Y up to minus m v y.
Up one.
OK.
So we can come down here.
We know that's too right.
I mean, that's one.
This is too.
So we plug this guy in, we get em VIP too.
That's negative, you know?
So you get a negative here minus M so VIP one, we got that.
All right.
You have the positive, you not.
He's throwing it in the positive direction.
This becomes that.
And we end up with is the negative two and you not?
So this is the defining moment, really, in order for conservation of matter to be true.
And we want that to be the case.
When we calculate Delta intent for targets is ball that must be equal to positive to immunize such that
when you are in the weather, you get zero, there is no change of momentum.
Let's see what happens as we have defined here, Delta P Matanzas Ball is in the Y parents to minus
M the UI parents one.
And we end up with something that does not look like it's going to match up.
What's going on here?
Let's plug these guys in.
OK, so what we end up with is an annuity to where is that this guy right here?
We get em.
You not divide by the square root of one minus the relative.
R C squared minus.
And this guy, we get a negative in the negative you not so this becomes positive.
Planted by this guy.
A lot of math there with me.
Will we end up with is something that's similar, but it's different.
We see some ganas popping up right here in this camera here.
So it sort of feels like relativistic effects that ripple effect is showing its face in the mathematics,
right?
So this becomes no more than just two am you, not one over one minus virome over C squared.
And what we find is very interesting.
And this is something that's going to smack that smile for Phillip's face when he sees that, oh my
god, conservation of momentum no longer applies when the world broke.
What do I do?
So if we take these guys and put it in here?
This becomes no more than two, am you not?
OK, so we get people.
That's going to be a negative one, plus this guy.
So we get.
One over square root of one sprawl over sea.
Squared.
Minus one.
Now, what's interesting is that.
In a classical sense, if the relative is much smaller, let's see if we're not going super fast.
This becomes zero, the viral oversee the relative velocity.
This becomes one and it holds.
But as soon as that guy starts picking up, we see that conservation of momentum no longer holds, at
least in the y direction.
So that is troubling because that's going to have huge implications throughout basically every facet
of physics that we've put together every classical idea, such as forces, energy, so on and so forth.
So that's pretty interesting.
So we find that in a wider action is not conserved, but in the X direction, we could do the same exact
exercise, but with an X here and said, you know, we could just work through that mentally.
So basically, we have em, V.X.
So the X is zero for Philip.
So basically, you basically get zero zero metal to begin with in the extraction.
You have zero momentum to end with four fill up.
And in Terence's case, with his ball right, we just have relative so.
Whereas v2, OK, so V.X, to be relative, it's the same, so the final minus the initial, nothing
changed.
OK.
So in the X direction, it is conserved, but in the Y direction it is not.
It's not conserved.
That's interesting.
OK.
So in order to save Newton's second law, our conceptions of force are conceptions of energy.
What we're going to need to do is figure out how we can modify this and save the day, how we can rectify
classical physics to work with modern physics, special relativity, so on and so forth.
And that is what we're going to tackle in the next video.
What we're going to do is I'm going to show you.
How relativistic effects arise and use that to try and really come up with a new candidate for defying
momentum and rectifying this big problem such that fill up, you can get a smile back on his face.